Make it fun! - Tim Draper

Build network effects into your business model. - Tim Draper

Turn your customers into your sales force. - Tim Draper

Don’t be a commodity. Your margins should grow over time. - Tim Draper

Focus on the user experience. - Tim Draper

Spend very little of your raised money until you have a product that paying customers want more of. - Tim Draper

Spend more money once you know that your salespeople can turn $1 into $5. - Tim Draper

Trust people. They will live up to your trust. - Tim Draper

Hire slowly. Fire fast. Your people and culture are your greatest resource. - Tim Draper

Raise the money. Don’t spend it. - Tim Draper

Understand your customer inside and out. - Tim Draper

Reputation is everything. Build and maintain yours. - Tim Draper

Anticipate customer needs. - Tim Draper

Keep it all positive in the press. It is a long life. - Tim Draper

Anything you write down will be shared with the world. Be thoughtful about what you write. - Tim Draper

Capture the end user. - Tim Draper

Build loyalty. - Tim Draper

Small teams make big things happen. - Tim Draper

Collect early and pay late. - Tim Draper

Find your KPIs and track them. - Tim Draper

Iterate and improve. - Tim Draper

Don’t have an exit plan. Just add another brick each day. Good things will happen. - Tim Draper

The stupid questions are smart. They bring the most information. - Tim Draper

Go viral. Do not fear growth. - Tim Draper

Don’t be afraid to ask for help. - Tim Draper

Meet at least four new people per day. - Tim Draper

If you are doing something that has never been regulated, you are on to something. - Tim Draper

When people around you are telling you the sky is falling, just keep your head down. - Tim Draper

The press is right for today. The visionaries are right for tomorrow. The two rarely intersect. - Tim Draper

Surround yourself with people who challenge you, but make you happy. - Tim Draper

Keep your personal life happy. - Tim Draper

Give credit to your team. Take none for yourself unless the business requires you to do so. - Tim Draper

Inform your team. The more they know the more they will be able to help. - Tim Draper

See problems firsthand. Do not delegate the toughest tasks.  - Tim Draper

Travel. Leave your comfort zone. - Tim Draper

Learn something unrelated to your business and then apply it to your business. Magic will happen. - Tim Draper

Know your competition, but don’t chase them. - Tim Draper

Fill your brain, but listen to your gut. - Tim Draper

When in doubt, listen. - Tim Draper

Keep the team focused on the big vision. - Tim Draper

Brand everything. - Tim Draper

Keep improving the technology in your business. AI everything. - Tim Draper

If people aren’t working out, have a one-on-one open-ended conversation with them. - Tim Draper

Lay out your problems for people. They often will have solutions you haven’t thought of. - Tim Draper

Make your company profitable. - Tim Draper

If you are not making money, you are not doing anyone any favors. Make money and your business can spread. - Tim Draper

Go to Draper Associates for funding. www.drapervc.com - Tim Draper

Marketing is the art of trying imaginative things and making some of them work. - Tim Draper

Automate what you can. - Tim Draper

Design your product to be easy and to be needed. - Tim Draper

Help everyone you can. - Tim Draper

Understand the lives and needs of your team. Help when you can. - Tim Draper

Be available 24/7, but don’t be available to everyone. - Tim Draper

Delegate those things you seem to do over and over. - Tim Draper

When you have a decision to make, make it. - Tim Draper

Make a happy workplace. - Tim Draper

When you are mad, put yourself in the shoes of the person you are mad at. - Tim Draper

Do not try to hire people and build an empire. Empires are built by lean teams. - Tim Draper

Do not try to be bigger than you are. It will be costly. - Tim Draper

Work through a crisis. - Tim Draper

If customers are not buying, ask yourself why. - Tim Draper

The art of selling is the art of listening. - Tim Draper

Raise money from family and friends first. If they turn you down, they will honestly tell you why. - Tim Draper

Practice Practice Practice Practice Practice Practice PracticePractice Practice Practice… - Tim Draper

Enjoy the adventure and relish the challenges. - Tim Draper

Raise your prices. Test the water. - Tim Draper

Use the most advanced tools to run your business, but usually wait until version 2.0. - Tim Draper

Use your board as mentors, connectors, and influencers; not as managers. - Tim Draper

Do not take all your board’s advice. You know more about the business than they do. - Tim Draper

Use a wide network to find your hires. - Tim Draper

Try to do at least one proactive thing for your business each day. - Tim Draper

There are no rules. - Tim Draper
