Think for yourself to decide 1) what you want, 2) what is true, and 3) what you should do to achieve #1 in light of #2, and do that with humility and open-mindedness so that you consider the best thinking available to you. - Ray Dalio
Look to the patterns of those things that affect you in order to understand the cause-effect relationships that drive them and to learn principles for dealing with them effectively. - Ray Dalio
Be a hyperrealist. - Ray Dalio
Dreams + Reality + Determination = A Successful Life. - Ray Dalio
Truth—or, more precisely, an accurate understanding of reality —is the essential foundation for any good outcome. - Ray Dalio
Be radically open-minded and radically transparent. - Ray Dalio
Radical open-mindedness and radical transparency are invaluable for rapid learning and effective change. - Ray Dalio
Don’t let fears of what others think of you stand in your way. - Ray Dalio
Embracing radical truth and radical transparency will bring more meaningful work and more meaningful relationships. - Ray Dalio
Look to nature to learn how reality works. - Ray Dalio
Don’t get hung up on your views of how things “should” be because you will miss out on learning how they really are. - Ray Dalio
To be “good,” something must operate consistently with the laws of reality and contribute to the evolution of the whole; that is what is most rewarded. - Ray Dalio
Evolution is the single greatest force in the universe; it is the only thing that is permanent and it drives everything. - Ray Dalio
Evolve or die. - Ray Dalio
Evolving is life’s greatest accomplishment and its greatest reward. - Ray Dalio
The individual’s incentives must be aligned with the group’s goals. - Ray Dalio
Reality is optimizing for the whole—not for you. - Ray Dalio
Adaptation through rapid trial and error is invaluable. - Ray Dalio
Realize that you are simultaneously everything and nothing —and decide what you want to be. - Ray Dalio
What you will be will depend on the perspective you have. - Ray Dalio
Understand nature’s practical lessons. - Ray Dalio
Maximize your evolution. - Ray Dalio
Remember “no pain, no gain.” - Ray Dalio
It is a fundamental law of nature that in order to gain strength one has to push one’s limits, which is painful. - Ray Dalio
Pain + Reflection = Progress. - Ray Dalio
Go to the pain rather than avoid it. - Ray Dalio
Embrace tough love. - Ray Dalio
Weigh second- and third-order consequences. - Ray Dalio
Own your outcomes. - Ray Dalio
Look at the machine from the higher level. - Ray Dalio
Think of yourself as a machine operating within a machine and know that you have the ability to alter your machines to produce better outcomes. - Ray Dalio
By comparing your outcomes with your goals, you can determine how to modify your machine. - Ray Dalio
Distinguish between you as the designer of your machine and you as a worker with your machine. - Ray Dalio
The biggest mistake most people make is to not see themselves and others objectively, which leads them to bump into their own and others’ weaknesses again and again. - Ray Dalio
Successful people are those who can go above themselves to see things objectively and manage those things to shape change. - Ray Dalio
Asking others who are strong in areas where you are weak to help you is a great skill that you should develop no matter what, as it will help you develop guardrails that will prevent you from doing what you shouldn’t be doing. - Ray Dalio
Because it is difficult to see oneself objectively, you need to rely on the input of others and the whole body of evidence. - Ray Dalio
If you are open-minded enough and determined, you can get virtually anything you want. 2  Use the 5-Step Process to Get What You Want Out of Life - Ray Dalio
Have clear goals. - Ray Dalio
Prioritize: While you can have virtually anything you want, you can’t have everything you want. - Ray Dalio
Don’t confuse goals with desires. - Ray Dalio
Decide what you really want in life by reconciling your goals and your desires. - Ray Dalio
Don’t mistake the trappings of success for success itself. - Ray Dalio
Never rule out a goal because you think it’s unattainable. - Ray Dalio
Remember that great expectations create great capabilities. - Ray Dalio
Almost nothing can stop you from succeeding if you have a) flexibility and b) self-accountability. - Ray Dalio
Knowing how to deal well with your setbacks is as important as knowing how to move forward. - Ray Dalio
Identify and don’t tolerate problems. - Ray Dalio
View painful problems as potential improvements that are screaming at you. - Ray Dalio
Don’t avoid confronting problems because they are rooted in harsh realities that are unpleasant to look at. - Ray Dalio
Be specific in identifying your problems. - Ray Dalio
Don’t mistake a cause of a problem with the real problem. - Ray Dalio
Distinguish big problems from small ones. - Ray Dalio
Once you identify a problem, don’t tolerate it. - Ray Dalio
Diagnose problems to get at their root causes. - Ray Dalio
Focus on the “what is” before deciding “what to do about it.” - Ray Dalio
Distinguish proximate causes from root causes. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that knowing what someone (including you) is like will tell you what you can expect from them. - Ray Dalio
Design a plan. - Ray Dalio
Go back before you go forward. - Ray Dalio
Think about your problem as a set of outcomes produced by a machine. - Ray Dalio
Remember that there are typically many paths to achieving your goals. - Ray Dalio
Think of your plan as being like a movie script in that you visualize who will do what through time. - Ray Dalio
Write down your plan for everyone to see and to measure your progress against. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that it doesn’t take a lot of time to design a good plan. - Ray Dalio
Push through to completion. - Ray Dalio
Great planners who don’t execute their plans go nowhere. - Ray Dalio
Good work habits are vastly underrated. - Ray Dalio
Establish clear metrics to make certain that you are following your plan. - Ray Dalio
Remember that weaknesses don’t matter if you find solutions. - Ray Dalio
Look at the patterns of your mistakes and identify at which step in the 5-Step Process you typically fail. - Ray Dalio
Everyone has at least one big thing that stands in the way of their success; find yours and deal with it. - Ray Dalio
Understand your own and others’ mental maps and humility. 3  Be Radically Open-Minded - Ray Dalio
Recognize your two barriers. - Ray Dalio
Understand your ego barrier. - Ray Dalio
Your two “yous” fight to control you. - Ray Dalio
Understand your blind spot barrier. - Ray Dalio
Practice radical open-mindedness. - Ray Dalio
Sincerely believe that you might not know the best possible path and recognize that your ability to deal well with “not knowing” is more important than whatever it is you do know. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that decision making is a two-step process: First take in all the relevant information, then decide. - Ray Dalio
Don’t worry about looking good; worry about achieving your goal. - Ray Dalio
Realize that you can’t put out without taking in. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that to gain the perspective that comes from seeing things through another’s eyes, you must suspend judgment for a time—only by empathizing can you properly evaluate another point of view. - Ray Dalio
Remember that you’re looking for the best answer, not simply the best answer that you can come up with yourself. - Ray Dalio
Be clear on whether you are arguing or seeking to understand, and think about which is most appropriate based on your and others’ believability. - Ray Dalio
Appreciate the art of thoughtful disagreement. - Ray Dalio
Triangulate your view with believable people who are willing to disagree. - Ray Dalio
Plan for the worst-case scenario to make it as good as possible. - Ray Dalio
Recognize the signs of closed-mindedness and open-mindedness that you should watch out for. - Ray Dalio
Understand how you can become radically open-minded. - Ray Dalio
Regularly use pain as your guide toward quality reflection. - Ray Dalio
Make being open-minded a habit. - Ray Dalio
Get to know your blind spots. - Ray Dalio
If a number of different believable people say you are doing something wrong and you are the only one who doesn’t see it that way, assume that you are probably biased. - Ray Dalio
Meditate. - Ray Dalio
Be evidence-based and encourage others to be the same. - Ray Dalio
Do everything in your power to help others also be open-minded. - Ray Dalio
Use evidence-based decision-making tools. - Ray Dalio
Know when it’s best to stop fighting and have faith in your decision-making process. - Ray Dalio
Understand the power that comes from knowing how you and others are wired. - Ray Dalio
We are born with attributes that can both help us and hurt us, depending on their application. - Ray Dalio
Meaningful work and meaningful relationships aren’t just nice things we chose for ourselves—they are genetically programmed into us. - Ray Dalio
Understand the great brain battles and how to control them to get what “you” want. - Ray Dalio
Realize that the conscious mind is in a battle with the subconscious mind. - Ray Dalio
Know that the most constant struggle is between feeling and thinking. - Ray Dalio
Reconcile your feelings and your thinking. - Ray Dalio
Choose your habits well. - Ray Dalio
Train your “lower-level you” with kindness and persistence to build the right habits. - Ray Dalio
Understand the differences between right-brained and left-brained thinking. - Ray Dalio
Understand how much the brain can and cannot change. - Ray Dalio
Find out what you and others are like. - Ray Dalio
Introversion vs. extroversion. - Ray Dalio
Intuiting vs. sensing. - Ray Dalio
Thinking vs. feeling. - Ray Dalio
Planning vs. perceiving. - Ray Dalio
Creators vs. refiners vs. advancers vs. executors vs. flexors. - Ray Dalio
Focusing on tasks vs. focusing on goals. - Ray Dalio
Workplace Personality Inventory. - Ray Dalio
Shapers are people who can go from visualization to actualization. - Ray Dalio
Getting the right people in the right roles in support of your goal is the key to succeeding at whatever you choose to accomplish. - Ray Dalio
Manage yourself and orchestrate others to get what you want. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that 1) the biggest threat to good decision making is harmful emotions, and 2) decision making is a two-step process (first learning and then deciding). - Ray Dalio
Synthesize the situation at hand. - Ray Dalio
One of the most important decisions you can make is who you ask questions of. - Ray Dalio
Don’t believe everything you hear. - Ray Dalio
Everything looks bigger up close. - Ray Dalio
New is overvalued relative to great. - Ray Dalio
Don’t oversqueeze dots. - Ray Dalio
Synthesize the situation through time. - Ray Dalio
Keep in mind both the rates of change and the levels of things, and the relationships between them. - Ray Dalio
Be imprecise. - Ray Dalio
Remember the 80/20 Rule and know what the key 20 percent is. - Ray Dalio
Be an imperfectionist. - Ray Dalio
Navigate levels effectively. - Ray Dalio
Use the terms “above the line” and “below the line” to establish which level a conversation is on. - Ray Dalio
Remember that decisions need to be made at the appropriate level, but they should also be consistent across levels. - Ray Dalio
Logic, reason, and common sense are your best tools for synthesizing reality and understanding what to do about it. - Ray Dalio
Make your decisions as expected value calculations. - Ray Dalio
Raising the probability of being right is valuable no matter what your probability of being right already is. - Ray Dalio
Knowing when not to bet is as important as knowing what bets are probably worth making. - Ray Dalio
The best choices are the ones that have more pros than cons, not those that don’t have any cons at all. - Ray Dalio
Prioritize by weighing the value of additional information against the cost of not deciding. - Ray Dalio
All of your “must-dos” must be above the bar before you do your “like-to-dos.” - Ray Dalio
Chances are you won’t have time to deal with the unimportant things, which is better than not having time        to deal with the important things. - Ray Dalio
Don’t mistake possibilities for probabilities. - Ray Dalio
Simplify! - Ray Dalio
Use principles. - Ray Dalio
Believability weight your decision making. - Ray Dalio
Convert your principles into algorithms and have the computer make decisions alongside you. - Ray Dalio
Be cautious about trusting AI without having deep understanding. - Ray Dalio
An organization is a machine consisting of two major parts: culture and people. - Ray Dalio
A great organization has both great people and a great culture. - Ray Dalio
Great people have both great character and great capabilities. - Ray Dalio
Great cultures bring problems and disagreements to the surface and solve them well, and they love imagining and building great things that haven’t been built before. Tough love is effective for achieving both great work and great relationships. - Ray Dalio
In order to be great, one can’t compromise the uncompromisable. A believability-weighted idea meritocracy is the best system for making effective decisions. Make your passion and your work one and the same and do it with people you want to be with. - Ray Dalio
Realize that you have nothing to fear from knowing the truth. - Ray Dalio
Have integrity and demand it from others. - Ray Dalio
Never say anything about someone that you wouldn’t say to them directly and don’t try people without accusing them to their faces. - Ray Dalio
Don’t let loyalty to people stand in the way of truth and the well-being of the organization. - Ray Dalio
Create an environment in which everyone has the right to understand what makes sense and no one has the right to hold a critical opinion without speaking up. - Ray Dalio
Speak up, own it, or get out. - Ray Dalio
Be extremely open. - Ray Dalio
Don’t be naive about dishonesty. - Ray Dalio
Be radically transparent. - Ray Dalio
Use transparency to help enforce justice. - Ray Dalio
Share the things that are hardest to share. - Ray Dalio
Keep exceptions to radical transparency very rare. - Ray Dalio
Make sure those who are given radical transparency recognize their responsibilities to handle it well and to weigh things intelligently. - Ray Dalio
Provide transparency to people who handle it well and either deny it to people who don’t handle it well or remove those people from the organization. - Ray Dalio
Don’t share sensitive information with the organization’s enemies. - Ray Dalio
Meaningful relationships and meaningful work are mutually reinforcing, especially when supported by radical truth and radical transparency. - Ray Dalio
Be loyal to the common mission and not to anyone who is not operating consistently with it. - Ray Dalio
Be crystal clear on what the deal is. - Ray Dalio
Make sure people give more consideration to others than they demand for themselves. - Ray Dalio
Make sure that people understand the difference between fairness and generosity. - Ray Dalio
Know where the line is and be on the far side of fair. - Ray Dalio
Pay for work. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that the size of the organization can pose a threat to meaningful relationships. - Ray Dalio
Remember that most people will pretend to operate in your interest while operating in their own. - Ray Dalio
Treasure honorable people who are capable and will treat you well even when you’re not looking. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that mistakes are a natural part of the evolutionary process. - Ray Dalio
Fail well. - Ray Dalio
Don’t feel bad about your mistakes or those of others. Love them! - Ray Dalio
Don’t worry about looking good—worry about achieving your goals. - Ray Dalio
Get over “blame” and “credit” and get on with “accurate” and “inaccurate.” - Ray Dalio
Observe the patterns of mistakes to see if they are products of weaknesses. - Ray Dalio
Remember to reflect when you experience pain. - Ray Dalio
Be self-reflective and make sure your people are self-reflective. - Ray Dalio
Know that nobody can see themselves objectively. - Ray Dalio
Teach and reinforce the merits of mistake-based learning. - Ray Dalio
Know what types of mistakes are acceptable and what types are unacceptable, and don’t allow the people who work for you to make the unacceptable ones. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that conflicts are essential for great relationships because they are how people determine whether their principles are aligned and resolve their differences. - Ray Dalio
Spend lavishly on the time and energy you devote to getting in sync, because it’s the best investment you can make. - Ray Dalio
Know how to get in sync and disagree well. - Ray Dalio
Surface areas of possible out-of-syncness. - Ray Dalio
Distinguish between idle complaints and complaints meant to lead to improvement. - Ray Dalio
Remember that every story has another side. - Ray Dalio
Be open-minded and assertive at the same time. - Ray Dalio
Distinguish open-minded people from closed-minded people. - Ray Dalio
Don’t have anything to do with closed-minded people. - Ray Dalio
Watch out for people who think it’s embarrassing not to know. - Ray Dalio
Make sure that those in charge are open-minded about the questions and comments of others. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that getting in sync is a two-way responsibility. - Ray Dalio
Worry more about substance than style. - Ray Dalio
Be reasonable and expect others to be reasonable. - Ray Dalio
Making suggestions and questioning are not the same as criticizing, so don’t treat them as if they are. - Ray Dalio
If it is your meeting to run, manage the conversation. - Ray Dalio
Make it clear who is directing the meeting and whom it is meant to serve. - Ray Dalio
Be precise in what you’re talking about to avoid confusion. - Ray Dalio
Make clear what type of communication you are going to have in light of the objectives and priorities. - Ray Dalio
Lead the discussion by being assertive and open-minded. - Ray Dalio
Navigate between the different levels of the conversation. - Ray Dalio
Watch out for “topic slip.” - Ray Dalio
Enforce the logic of conversations. - Ray Dalio
Be careful not to lose personal responsibility via group decision making. - Ray Dalio
Utilize the “two-minute rule” to avoid persistent interruptions. - Ray Dalio
Watch out for assertive “fast talkers.” - Ray Dalio
Achieve completion in conversations. - Ray Dalio
Leverage your communication. - Ray Dalio
Great collaboration feels like playing jazz. - Ray Dalio
1+1=3. - Ray Dalio
3 to 5 is more than 20. - Ray Dalio
When you have alignment, cherish it. - Ray Dalio
If you find you can’t reconcile major differences—especially in values—consider whether the relationship is worth preserving. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that having an effective idea meritocracy requires that you understand the merit of each person’s ideas. - Ray Dalio
If you can’t successfully do something, don’t think you can tell others how it should be done. - Ray Dalio
Remember that everyone has opinions and they are often bad. - Ray Dalio
Find the most believable people possible who disagree with you and try to understand their reasoning. - Ray Dalio
Think about people’s believability in order to assess the likelihood that their opinions are good. - Ray Dalio
Remember that believable opinions are most likely to come from people 1) who have successfully accomplished the thing in question at least three times, and 2) who have great explanations of the cause-effect relationships that lead them to         their conclusions. - Ray Dalio
If someone hasn’t done something but has a theory that seems logical and can be stress-tested, then by all means test it. - Ray Dalio
Don’t pay as much attention to people’s conclusions as to the reasoning that led them to their conclusions. - Ray Dalio
Inexperienced people can have great ideas too, sometimes far better ones than more experienced people. - Ray Dalio
Everyone should be up-front in expressing how confident they are in their thoughts. - Ray Dalio
Think about whether you are playing the role of a teacher, a student, or a peer and whether you should be teaching, asking questions, or debating. - Ray Dalio
It’s more important that the student understand the teacher than that the teacher understand the student, though both are important. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that while everyone has the right and responsibility to try to make sense of important things, they must do so with humility and radical open-mindedness. - Ray Dalio
Understand how people came by their opinions. - Ray Dalio
If you ask someone a question, they will probably give you an answer, so think through to whom you should address your questions. - Ray Dalio
Having everyone randomly probe everyone else is an unproductive waste of time. - Ray Dalio
Beware of statements that begin with “I think that . . .” - Ray Dalio
Assess believability by systematically capturing people’s track records over time. - Ray Dalio
Disagreeing must be done efficiently. - Ray Dalio
Know when to stop debating and move on to agreeing about what should be done. - Ray Dalio
Use believability weighting as a tool rather than a substitute for decision making by Responsible Parties. - Ray Dalio
Since you don’t have the time to thoroughly examine everyone’s thinking yourself, choose your believable people wisely. - Ray Dalio
When you’re responsible for a decision, compare the believability-weighted decision making of the crowd to what you believe. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that everyone has the right and responsibility to try to make sense of important things. - Ray Dalio
Communications aimed at getting the best answer should involve the most relevant people. - Ray Dalio
Communication aimed at educating or boosting cohesion should involve a broader set of people than would be needed if the aim were just getting the best answer. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that you don’t need to make judgments about everything. - Ray Dalio
Pay more attention to whether the decision-making system is fair than whether you get your way. - Ray Dalio
Remember: Principles can’t be ignored by mutual agreement. - Ray Dalio
The same standards of behavior apply to everyone. - Ray Dalio
Make sure people don’t confuse the right to complain, give advice, and openly debate with the right to make decisions. - Ray Dalio
When challenging a decision and/or a decision maker, consider the broader context. - Ray Dalio
Don’t leave important conflicts unresolved. - Ray Dalio
Don’t let the little things divide you when your agreement on the big things should bind you. - Ray Dalio
Don’t get stuck in disagreement—escalate or vote! - Ray Dalio
Once a decision is made, everyone should get behind it even though individuals may still disagree. - Ray Dalio
See things from the higher level. - Ray Dalio
Never allow the idea meritocracy to slip into anarchy. - Ray Dalio
Don’t allow lynch mobs or mob rule. - Ray Dalio
Remember that if the idea meritocracy comes into conflict with the well-being of the organization, it will inevitably suffer. - Ray Dalio
Declare “martial law” only in rare or extreme circumstances when the principles need to be suspended. - Ray Dalio
Be wary of people who argue for the suspension of the idea meritocracy for the “good of the organization.” - Ray Dalio
Recognize that if the people who have the power don’t want to operate by principles, the principled way of operating will fail. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that the most important decision for you to make is who you choose as your Responsible Parties. - Ray Dalio
Understand that the most important RPs are those responsible for the goals, outcomes, and machines at the highest levels. - Ray Dalio
Know that the ultimate Responsible Party will be the person who bears the consequences of what is done. - Ray Dalio
Make sure that everyone has someone they report to. - Ray Dalio
Remember the force behind the thing. 8  Hire Right, Because the Penalties for Hiring Wrong Are Huge - Ray Dalio
Match the person to the design. - Ray Dalio
Think through which values, abilities, and skills you are looking for (in that order). - Ray Dalio
Make finding the right people systematic and scientific. - Ray Dalio
Hear the click: Find the right fit between the role and the person. - Ray Dalio
Look for people who sparkle, not just “any ol’ one of those.” - Ray Dalio
Don’t use your pull to get someone a job. - Ray Dalio
Remember that people are built very differently and that different ways of seeing and thinking make people suitable for different jobs. - Ray Dalio
Understand how to use and interpret personality assessments. - Ray Dalio
Remember that people tend to pick people like themselves, so choose interviewers who can identify what you are looking for. - Ray Dalio
Look for people who are willing to look at themselves objectively. - Ray Dalio
Remember that people typically don’t change all that much. - Ray Dalio
Think of your teams the way that sports managers do: No one person possesses everything required to produce success, yet everyone must excel. - Ray Dalio
Pay attention to people’s track records. - Ray Dalio
Check references. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that performance in school doesn’t tell you much about whether a person has the values and abilities you are looking for. - Ray Dalio
While it’s best to have great conceptual thinkers, understand that great experience and a great track record also count for a lot. - Ray Dalio
Beware of the impractical idealist. - Ray Dalio
Don’t assume that a person who has been successful elsewhere will be successful in the job you’re giving them. - Ray Dalio
Make sure your people have character and are capable. - Ray Dalio
Don’t hire people just to fit the first job they will do; hire people you want to share your life with. - Ray Dalio
Look for people who have lots of great questions. - Ray Dalio
Show candidates your warts. - Ray Dalio
Play jazz with people with whom you are compatible but who will also challenge you. - Ray Dalio
When considering compensation, provide both stability and opportunity. - Ray Dalio
Pay for the person, not the job. - Ray Dalio
Have performance metrics tied at least loosely to compensation. - Ray Dalio
Pay north of fair. - Ray Dalio
Focus more on making the pie bigger than on exactly how to slice it so that you or anyone else gets the biggest piece. - Ray Dalio
Remember that in great partnerships, consideration and generosity are more important than money. - Ray Dalio
Be generous and expect generosity from others. - Ray Dalio
Great people are hard to find so make sure you think about how to keep them. 9  Constantly Train, Test, Evaluate, and Sort People - Ray Dalio
Understand that you and the people you manage will go through a process of personal evolution. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that personal evolution should be relatively rapid and a natural consequence of discovering one’s strengths and weaknesses; as a result, career paths are not planned at the outset. - Ray Dalio
Understand that training guides the process of personal evolution. - Ray Dalio
Teach your people to fish rather than give them fish, even if that means letting them make some mistakes. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that experience creates internalized learning that book learning can’t replace. - Ray Dalio
Provide constant feedback. - Ray Dalio
Evaluate accurately, not kindly. - Ray Dalio
In the end, accuracy and kindness are the same thing. - Ray Dalio
Put your compliments and criticisms in perspective. - Ray Dalio
Think about accuracy, not implications. - Ray Dalio
Make accurate assessments. - Ray Dalio
Learn from success as well as from failure. - Ray Dalio
Know that most everyone thinks that what they did, and what they are doing, is much more important than it really is. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that tough love is both the hardest and the most important type of love to give (because it is so rarely welcomed). - Ray Dalio
Recognize that while most people prefer compliments, accurate criticism is more valuable. - Ray Dalio
Don’t hide your observations about people. - Ray Dalio
Build your synthesis from the specifics up. - Ray Dalio
Squeeze the dots. - Ray Dalio
Don’t oversqueeze a dot. - Ray Dalio
Use evaluation tools such as performance surveys, metrics, and formal reviews to document all aspects of a person’s performance. - Ray Dalio
Make the process of learning what someone is like open, evolutionary, and iterative. - Ray Dalio
Make your metrics clear and impartial. - Ray Dalio
Encourage people to be objectively reflective about their performance. - Ray Dalio
Look at the whole picture. - Ray Dalio
For performance reviews, start from specific cases, look for patterns, and get in sync with the person being reviewed by looking at the evidence together. - Ray Dalio
Remember that when it comes to assessing people, the two biggest mistakes you can make are being overconfident in your assessment and failing to get in sync on it. - Ray Dalio
Get in sync on assessments in a nonhierarchical way. - Ray Dalio
Learn about your people and have them learn about you through frank conversations about mistakes and their root causes. - Ray Dalio
Understand that making sure people are doing a good job doesn’t require watching everything that everybody is doing at all times. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that change is difficult. - Ray Dalio
Help people through the pain that comes with exploring their weaknesses. - Ray Dalio
Knowing how people operate and being able to judge whether that way of operating will lead to good results is more important than knowing what they did. - Ray Dalio
If someone is doing their job poorly, consider whether it is due to inadequate learning or inadequate ability. - Ray Dalio
Training and testing a poor performer to see if he or she can acquire the required skills without simultaneously trying to assess their abilities is a common mistake. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that when you are really in sync with someone about their weaknesses, the weaknesses are probably true. - Ray Dalio
When judging people, remember that you don’t have to get to the point of “beyond a shadow of a doubt.” - Ray Dalio
It should take you no more than a year to learn what a person is like and whether they are a click for their job. - Ray Dalio
Continue assessing people throughout their tenure. - Ray Dalio
Evaluate employees with the same rigor as you evaluate job candidates. - Ray Dalio
Train, guardrail, or remove people; don’t rehabilitate them. - Ray Dalio
Don’t collect people. - Ray Dalio
Be willing to “shoot the people you love.” - Ray Dalio
When someone is “without a box,” consider whether there is an open box that would be a better fit or whether you need to get them out of the company. - Ray Dalio
Be cautious about allowing people to step back to another role after failing. - Ray Dalio
Remember that the goal of a transfer is the best, highest use of the person in a way that benefits the community as a whole. - Ray Dalio
Have people “complete their swings” before moving on to new roles. - Ray Dalio
Don’t lower the bar. 10  Manage as Someone Operating a Machine to Achieve a Goal - Ray Dalio
Look down on your machine and yourself within it from the higher level. - Ray Dalio
Constantly compare your outcomes to your goals. - Ray Dalio
Understand that a great manager is essentially an organizational engineer. - Ray Dalio
Build great metrics. - Ray Dalio
Beware of paying too much attention to what is coming at you and not enough attention to your machine. - Ray Dalio
Don’t get distracted by shiny objects. - Ray Dalio
Remember that for every case you deal with, your approach should have two purposes: 1) to move you closer to your goal, and 2) to train and test your machine (i.e., your people and your design). - Ray Dalio
Everything is a case study. - Ray Dalio
When a problem occurs, conduct the discussion at two levels: 1) the machine level (why that outcome was produced) and 2) the case-at-hand level (what to do about it). - Ray Dalio
When making rules, explain the principles behind them. - Ray Dalio
Your policies should be natural extensions of your principles. - Ray Dalio
While good principles and policies almost always provide good guidance, remember that there are exceptions to every rule. - Ray Dalio
Understand the differences between managing, micromanaging, and not managing. - Ray Dalio
Managers must make sure that what they are responsible for works well. - Ray Dalio
Managing the people who report to you should feel like skiing together. - Ray Dalio
An excellent skier is probably going to be a better ski coach than a novice skier. - Ray Dalio
You should be able to delegate the details. - Ray Dalio
Know what your people are like and what makes them tick, because your people are your most important resource. - Ray Dalio
Regularly take the temperature of each person who is important to you and to the organization. - Ray Dalio
Learn how much confidence to have in your people—don’t assume it. - Ray Dalio
Vary your involvement based on your confidence. - Ray Dalio
Clearly assign responsibilities. - Ray Dalio
Remember who has what responsibilities. - Ray Dalio
Watch out for “ job slip.” - Ray Dalio
Probe deep and hard to learn what you can expect from your machine. - Ray Dalio
Get a threshold level of understanding. - Ray Dalio
Avoid staying too distant. - Ray Dalio
Use daily updates as a tool for staying on top of what your people are doing and thinking. - Ray Dalio
Probe so you know whether problems are likely to occur before they actually do. - Ray Dalio
Probe to the level below the people who report to you. - Ray Dalio
Have the people who report to the people who report to you feel free to escalate their problems to you. - Ray Dalio
Don’t assume that people’s answers are correct. - Ray Dalio
Train your ear. - Ray Dalio
Make your probing transparent rather than private. - Ray Dalio
Welcome probing. - Ray Dalio
Remember that people who see things and think one way often have difficulty communicating with and relating to people who see things and think another way. - Ray Dalio
Pull all suspicious threads. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that there are many ways to skin a cat. - Ray Dalio
Think like an owner, and expect the people you work with to do the same. - Ray Dalio
Going on vacation doesn’t mean one can neglect one’s responsibilities. - Ray Dalio
Force yourself and the people who work for you to do difficult things. - Ray Dalio
Recognize and deal with key-man risk. - Ray Dalio
Don’t treat everyone the same—treat them appropriately. - Ray Dalio
Don’t let yourself get squeezed. - Ray Dalio
Care about the people who work for you. - Ray Dalio
Know that great leadership is generally not what it’s made out to be. - Ray Dalio
Be weak and strong at the same time. - Ray Dalio
Don’t worry about whether or not your people like you and don’t look to them to tell you what you should do. - Ray Dalio
Don’t give orders and try to be followed; try to be understood and to understand others by getting in sync. - Ray Dalio
Hold yourself and your people accountable and appreciate them for holding you accountable. - Ray Dalio
If you’ve agreed with someone that something is supposed to go a certain way, make sure it goes that way—unless you get in sync about doing it differently. - Ray Dalio
Distinguish between a failure in which someone broke their “contract” and a failure in which there was no contract to begin with. - Ray Dalio
Avoid getting sucked down. - Ray Dalio
Watch out for people who confuse goals and tasks, because if they can’t make that distinction, you can’t trust them with responsibilities. - Ray Dalio
Watch out for the unfocused and unproductive “theoretical should.” - Ray Dalio
Communicate the plan clearly and have clear metrics conveying whether you are progressing according to it. - Ray Dalio
Put things in perspective by going back before going forward. - Ray Dalio
Escalate when you can’t adequately handle your responsibilities and make sure that the people who work for you are proactive about doing the same. 11  Perceive and Don’t Tolerate Problems - Ray Dalio
If you’re not worried, you need to worry—and if you’re worried, you don’t need to worry. - Ray Dalio
Design and oversee a machine to perceive whether things are good enough or not good enough, or do it yourself. - Ray Dalio
Assign people the job of perceiving problems, give them time to investigate, and make sure they have independent reporting lines so that they can convey problems without any  fear of recrimination. - Ray Dalio
Watch out for the “Frog in the Boiling Water Syndrome.” - Ray Dalio
Beware of group-think: The fact that no one seems concerned doesn’t mean nothing is wrong. - Ray Dalio
To perceive problems, compare how the outcomes are lining up with your goals. - Ray Dalio
“Taste the soup.” - Ray Dalio
Have as many eyes looking for problems as possible. - Ray Dalio
“Pop the cork.” - Ray Dalio
Realize that the people closest to certain jobs probably know them best. - Ray Dalio
Be very specific about problems; don’t start with generalizations. - Ray Dalio
Avoid the anonymous “we” and “they,” because they mask personal responsibility. - Ray Dalio
Don’t be afraid to fix the difficult things. - Ray Dalio
Understand that problems with good, planned solutions in place are completely different from those without such solutions. - Ray Dalio
Think of the problems you perceive in a machinelike way. 12  Diagnose Problems to Get at Their Root Causes - Ray Dalio
To diagnose well, ask the following questions: 1. Is the outcome good or bad? 2. Who is responsible for the outcome? 3. If the outcome is bad, is the Responsible Party incapable and/or is the design bad? - Ray Dalio
Ask yourself: “Who should do what differently?” - Ray Dalio
Identify at which step in the 5-Step Process the failure occurred. - Ray Dalio
Identify the principles that were violated. - Ray Dalio
Avoid Monday morning quarterbacking. - Ray Dalio
Don’t confuse the quality of someone’s circumstances with the quality of their approach to dealing with the circumstances. - Ray Dalio
Identifying the fact that someone else doesn’t know what to do doesn’t mean that you know what to do. - Ray Dalio
Remember that a root cause is not an action but a reason. - Ray Dalio
To distinguish between a capacity issue and a capability issue, imagine how the person would perform at that particular function if they had ample capacity. - Ray Dalio
Keep in mind that managers usually fail or fall short of their goals for one (or more) of five reasons. - Ray Dalio
Maintain an emerging synthesis by diagnosing continuously. - Ray Dalio
Keep in mind that diagnoses should produce outcomes. - Ray Dalio
Remember that if you have the same people doing the same things, you should expect the same results. - Ray Dalio
Use the following “drill-down” technique to gain an 80/20 understanding of a department or sub-department that is having problems. - Ray Dalio
Understand that diagnosis is foundational to both progress and quality relationships. 13  Design Improvements to Your Machine to Get Around Your Problems - Ray Dalio
Build your machine. - Ray Dalio
Systemize your principles and how they will be implemented. - Ray Dalio
Create great decision-making machines by thinking through the criteria you are using to make decisions while you are making them. - Ray Dalio
Remember that a good plan should resemble a movie script. - Ray Dalio
Put yourself in the position of pain for a while so that you gain a richer understanding of what you’re designing for. - Ray Dalio
Visualize alternative machines and their outcomes, and then choose. - Ray Dalio
Consider second- and third-order consequences, not just first-order ones. - Ray Dalio
Use standing meetings to help your organization run like a Swiss clock. - Ray Dalio
Remember that a good machine takes into account the fact that people are imperfect. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that design is an iterative process. Between a bad “now” and a good “then” is a “working through it” period. - Ray Dalio
Understand the power of the “cleansing storm.” - Ray Dalio
Build the organization around goals rather than tasks. - Ray Dalio
Build your organization from the top down. - Ray Dalio
Remember that everyone must be overseen by a believable person who has high standards. - Ray Dalio
Make sure the people at the top of each pyramid have the skills and focus to manage their direct reports and a deep understanding of their jobs. - Ray Dalio
In designing your organization, remember that the 5-Step Process is the path to success and that different people are good at different steps. - Ray Dalio
Don’t build the organization to fit the people. - Ray Dalio
Keep scale in mind. - Ray Dalio
Organize departments and sub-departments around the most logical groupings based on “gravitational pull.” - Ray Dalio
Make departments as self-sufficient as possible so that they have control over the resources they need to achieve their goals. - Ray Dalio
Ensure that the ratios of senior managers to junior managers and of junior managers to their reports are limited to preserve quality communication and mutual understanding. - Ray Dalio
Consider succession and training in your design. - Ray Dalio
Don’t just pay attention to your job; pay attention to how your job will be done if you are no longer around. - Ray Dalio
Use “double-do” rather than “double-check” to make sure mission-critical tasks are done correctly. - Ray Dalio
Use consultants wisely and watch out for consultant addiction. - Ray Dalio
Create an organizational chart to look like a pyramid, with straight lines down that don’t cross. - Ray Dalio
Involve the person who is the point of the pyramid when encountering cross-departmental or cross-sub-departmental issues. - Ray Dalio
Don’t do work for people in another department or grab people from another department to do work for you unless you speak to the person responsible for overseeing the other department. - Ray Dalio
Watch out for “department slip.” - Ray Dalio
Create guardrails when needed—and remember it’s better not to guardrail at all. - Ray Dalio
Don’t expect people to recognize and compensate for their own blind spots. - Ray Dalio
Consider the clover-leaf design. - Ray Dalio
Keep your strategic vision the same while making appropriate tactical changes as circumstances dictate. - Ray Dalio
Don’t put the expedient ahead of the strategic. - Ray Dalio
Think about both the big picture and the granular details, and understand the connections between them. - Ray Dalio
Have good controls so that you are not exposed to the dishonesty of others. - Ray Dalio
Investigate and let people know you are going to investigate. - Ray Dalio
Remember that there is no sense in having laws unless you have policemen (auditors). - Ray Dalio
Beware of rubber-stamping. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that people who make purchases on your behalf probably will not spend your money wisely. - Ray Dalio
Use “public hangings” to deter bad behavior. - Ray Dalio
Have the clearest possible reporting lines and delineations of responsibilities. - Ray Dalio
Assign responsibilities based on workflow design and people’s abilities, not job titles. - Ray Dalio
Constantly think about how to produce leverage. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that it is far better to find a few smart people and give them the best technology than to have a greater number of ordinary people who are less well equipped. - Ray Dalio
Use leveragers. - Ray Dalio
Remember that almost everything will take more time and cost more money than you expect. 14  Do What You Set Out to Do - Ray Dalio
Work for goals that you and your organization are excited about and think about how your tasks connect to those goals. - Ray Dalio
Be coordinated and consistent in motivating others. - Ray Dalio
Don’t act before thinking. Take the time to come up with a game plan. - Ray Dalio
Look for creative, cut-through solutions. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that everyone has too much to do. - Ray Dalio
Don’t get frustrated. - Ray Dalio
Use checklists. - Ray Dalio
Don’t confuse checklists with personal responsibility. - Ray Dalio
Allow time for rest and renovation. - Ray Dalio
Ring the bell. 15  Use Tools and Protocols to Shape How Work Is Done - Ray Dalio
Having systemized principles embedded in tools is especially valuable for an idea meritocracy. - Ray Dalio
To produce real behavioral change, understand that there must be internalized or habitualized learning. - Ray Dalio
Use tools to collect data and process it into conclusions and actions. - Ray Dalio
Foster an environment of confidence and fairness by having clearly-stated principles that are implemented in tools and protocols so that the conclusions reached can be assessed by tracking the logic and data behind them. 16  And for Heaven’s Sake, Don’t Overlook Governance! - Ray Dalio
To be successful, all organizations must have checks and balances. - Ray Dalio
Even in an idea meritocracy, merit cannot be the only determining factor in assigning responsibility and authority. - Ray Dalio
Make sure that no one is more powerful than the system or so important that they are irreplaceable. - Ray Dalio
Beware of fiefdoms. - Ray Dalio
Make clear that the organization’s structure and rules are designed to ensure that its checks-and-balances system functions well. - Ray Dalio
Make sure reporting lines are clear. - Ray Dalio
Make sure decision rights are clear. - Ray Dalio
Make sure that the people doing the assessing 1) have the time to be fully informed about how the person they are checking on is doing, 2) have the ability to make the assessments, and 3) are not in a conflict of interest that stands in the way of carrying out oversight effectively. - Ray Dalio
Recognize that decision makers must have access to the information necessary to make decisions and must be trustworthy enough to handle that information safely. - Ray Dalio
Remember that in an idea meritocracy a single CEO is not as good as a great group of leaders. - Ray Dalio
No governance system of principles, rules, and checks and balances can substitute for a great partnership. 